README.md, before:

# Simple Weather

[![Supported Foundry Versions](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://foundryshields.com/version?url=https://github.com/dovrosenberg/foundry-simple-weather/raw/master/static/module.json)](https://github.com/dovrosenberg/foundry-simple-weather)

A module that provides dynamic weather generation, by season and biome, including automatically activating weather effects.  If [Simple Calendar](https://foundryvtt.com/packages/foundryvtt-simple-calendar) (minimum version 2.4.0) is present, Simple Weather will integrate to it and display the date/time and automatically generate new weather when the date changes.  Without Simple Calendar, no date is shown and weather regeneration can be manually triggered. (NOTE: THIS MODULE IS NOT AFFILIATED WITH THE CREATORS OF SIMPLE CALENDAR)


I built this as a way to learn Foundry better, but I plan to maintain it for now and am happy to consider [feature requests](https://github.com/dovrosenberg/foundry-simple-weather/issues/new/choose)

## Features

- Intuitive UI to generate weather  
- Use Foundry scene weather to automatically show rain, snow, etc. when appropriate
- Various ways to share weather with players
  - Print the weather to chat, with the option of showing to players or not
  - Choose whether players can see the dialog (with a limited UI)
- Randomized weather for every season across 3 climates (hot, temperate, cold) and 3 humidities (barren, modest, verdant)
- Weather progresses naturally from day to day
- Ability to manually pick weather for special events
- Supports Farenheit and Celsius temperatures
- Helpful keybinding options

### And if using Simple Calendar:
- Generate weather for every new day automatically
- Use the Simple Calendar season to adjust season automatically
- Show the current date/time from Simple Calendar in a smaller box (good for players who don't need the full Simple Calendar display), or hide it and just show the weather

## Controls

### Gamemaster controls

![Main UI](https://i.imgur.com/v1uT7Ie.png)

### Player controls

![Main UI](https://i.imgur.com/8tmHSFu.png)

### Biomes/Climate/Humidity 

Selecting a biome will automatically pick the climate and humidity to match - providing an easy way to pick standard Earth biomes.  But you can also
pick the climate/humidity separately so it's flexible to capture most weather conditions.

### Seasons 
Seasons determine the types of weather for each biome.  Winter is colder, summer is hotter, and spring/fall are in the middle (but generally tend toward getting warmer/colder).

When not using Simple Calendar, you just select the season you want to use.  

When using Simple Calendar, you can choose "Sync with Simple Calendar" and the season of the current date will be used automatically.  The season icon next to the drop down will change to let you know what season it is currently using.  Simple Weather determines the Season to use based on the icon for the season in Simple Calendar.  So, if you are using a custom calendar, for season sync to work you must a) set up seasons in Simple Calendar, and b) choose one of the season icons (fall, winter, spring, summer) for each of your seasons.

In some cases, you may need to override Simple Calendar's season. In particular, if you change hemispheres - because what Simple Calendar thinks is summer (ex. July) may actually be cold temperatures (ex. if in South America), so you'll want to manually override it.  "Winter" is always cold in Simple Weather.  In that case, simply pick the season you want in the drop down.  It will remain in the manual setting until you set it back to "Sync".

### Manual weather
Sometimes you might want to specify the exact weather that you need, rather than having it randomly generated (for example when approaching the lair of a frost witch).  To do this, open the manual toolbar and check "Pause updates" (which will collapse the season and biome toolbars for simplicity).  Note that pausing isn't technically required, but if you don't then if you hit "regenerate" or advance the date, the weather will go back to the normal weather pattern.  You can then choose the weather desired from the dropdown and enter a temperature before hitting the submit button.  This will then cause the weather to appear in the chat, player dialogs, and weather effects just as if the system generated it (as determined by your settings).  

Unchecking "Pause updates" won't immediately trigger a regeneration of weather, but if you want one without advancing the date, just then hit the "regenerate" button.

### Weather Effects 
The GM can activate weather effects in the module settings.  For now, the only option is to use the scene weather in the Fondry core, but future support for FX Master and other modules is planned.

Once activated in settings, the scene weather will automatically be changed whenever the weather warrants it.  There is currently only support for inclement weather (rain, hail, snow, fog).  Let me know if there's any desire to do something to show sunny days, as I wasn't sure what made the most sense.

When players go inside, you can easily toggle the fx on/off temporarily using the toggle button on the toolbar.

Note: When using FXMaster, effects can take up to 20 seconds to full transition when changing.  This is a result of the way FX Master's API works.  Feel free to chime in on [this](https://github.com/ghost-fvtt/fxmaster/issues/635) issue to encourage them to add support for just turning things off immediately.

### Keybindings
There are keybinding options under "Configure Controls" in the main Foundry Game Settings section.  You can toggle the whole window on/off, regenerate weather, pause automatic changes to the weather, and toggle weather effects on/off.  Note that these keybindings work even when the window is hidden.  So you can in theory run the whole weather system while the window is hidden (autogenerating weather by calendar, manually generating new weather, turning effects on/off).

## Support

If you believe you found a bug or would like to post a feature request, head over to the module's [Github repo](https://github.com/dovrosenberg/foundry-simple-weather) and [open a new issue](https://github.com/dovrosenberg/foundry-simple-weather/issues/new/choose).


## Credits

Simnple Weather is the result of the effort of many people (whether they know it or not). Please refer to [CREDITS.md](https://github.com/dovrosenberg/foundry-simple-weather/blob/master/CREDITS.md) for the full list.

## Copyright and usage
THIS ENTIRE REPOSITORY IS COVERED BY THIS LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT NOTICE

Copyright 2023 Dov Rosenberg

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

Commit message:

WIP - debug clouds... does updateParticleEffects work better?

README.md, after:

# Simple Weather

[![Supported Foundry Versions](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://foundryshields.com/version?url=https://github.com/dovrosenberg/foundry-simple-weather/raw/master/static/module.json)](https://github.com/dovrosenberg/foundry-simple-weather)

A module that provides dynamic weather generation, by season and biome, including automatically activating weather effects.  If [Simple Calendar](https://foundryvtt.com/packages/foundryvtt-simple-calendar) (minimum version 2.4.0) is present, Simple Weather will integrate to it and display the date/time and automatically generate new weather when the date changes.  Without Simple Calendar, no date is shown and weather regeneration can be manually triggered. (NOTE: THIS MODULE IS NOT AFFILIATED WITH THE CREATORS OF SIMPLE CALENDAR)


I built this as a way to learn Foundry better, but I plan to maintain it for now and am happy to consider [feature requests](https://github.com/dovrosenberg/foundry-simple-weather/issues/new/choose)

## Features

- Intuitive UI to generate weather  
- Use Foundry scene weather to automatically show rain, snow, etc. when appropriate
- Various ways to share weather with players
  - Print the weather to chat, with the option of showing to players or not
  - Choose whether players can see the dialog (with a limited UI)
- Randomized weather for every season across 3 climates (hot, temperate, cold) and 3 humidities (barren, modest, verdant)
- Weather progresses naturally from day to day
- Ability to manually pick weather for special events
- Supports Farenheit and Celsius temperatures
- Helpful keybinding options

### And if using Simple Calendar:
- Generate weather for every new day automatically
- Use the Simple Calendar season to adjust season automatically
- Show the current date/time from Simple Calendar in a smaller box (good for players who don't need the full Simple Calendar display), or hide it and just show the weather

## Controls

### Gamemaster controls

![Main UI](https://i.imgur.com/v1uT7Ie.png)

### Player controls

![Main UI](https://i.imgur.com/8tmHSFu.png)

### Biomes/Climate/Humidity 

Selecting a biome will automatically pick the climate and humidity to match - providing an easy way to pick standard Earth biomes.  But you can also
pick the climate/humidity separately so it's flexible to capture most weather conditions.

### Seasons 
Seasons determine the types of weather for each biome.  Winter is colder, summer is hotter, and spring/fall are in the middle (but generally tend toward getting warmer/colder).

When not using Simple Calendar, you just select the season you want to use.  

When using Simple Calendar, you can choose "Sync with Simple Calendar" and the season of the current date will be used automatically.  The season icon next to the drop down will change to let you know what season it is currently using.  Simple Weather determines the Season to use based on the icon for the season in Simple Calendar.  So, if you are using a custom calendar, for season sync to work you must a) set up seasons in Simple Calendar, and b) choose one of the season icons (fall, winter, spring, summer) for each of your seasons.

In some cases, you may need to override Simple Calendar's season. In particular, if you change hemispheres - because what Simple Calendar thinks is summer (ex. July) may actually be cold temperatures (ex. if in South America), so you'll want to manually override it.  "Winter" is always cold in Simple Weather.  In that case, simply pick the season you want in the drop down.  It will remain in the manual setting until you set it back to "Sync".

### Manual weather
Sometimes you might want to specify the exact weather that you need, rather than having it randomly generated (for example when approaching the lair of a frost witch).  To do this, open the manual toolbar and check "Pause updates" (which will collapse the season and biome toolbars for simplicity).  Note that pausing isn't technically required, but if you don't then if you hit "regenerate" or advance the date, the weather will go back to the normal weather pattern.  You can then choose the weather desired from the dropdown and enter a temperature before hitting the submit button.  This will then cause the weather to appear in the chat, player dialogs, and weather effects just as if the system generated it (as determined by your settings).  

Unchecking "Pause updates" won't immediately trigger a regeneration of weather, but if you want one without advancing the date, just then hit the "regenerate" button.

### Weather Effects 
The GM can activate weather effects in the module settings.  For now, the only option is to use the scene weather in the Fondry core, but future support for FX Master and other modules is planned.

Once activated in settings, the scene weather will automatically be changed whenever the weather warrants it.  There is currently only support for inclement weather (rain, hail, snow, fog).  Let me know if there's any desire to do something to show sunny days, as I wasn't sure what made the most sense.

When players go inside, you can easily toggle the fx on/off temporarily using the toggle button on the toolbar.

Note: When using FXMaster, effects can take up to 20 seconds to full transition when changing.  In particular, clouds and fog take a long time to get going and stop.  This is a result of the way FX Master's API works.  Feel free to chime in on [this](https://github.com/ghost-fvtt/fxmaster/issues/635) issue to encourage them to add support for just turning things off immediately.  Sometimes the new weather never shows up at all or goes away randomly (again, clouds and fog) -- not sure what the deal is here.

### Keybindings
There are keybinding options under "Configure Controls" in the main Foundry Game Settings section.  You can toggle the whole window on/off, regenerate weather, pause automatic changes to the weather, and toggle weather effects on/off.  Note that these keybindings work even when the window is hidden.  So you can in theory run the whole weather system while the window is hidden (autogenerating weather by calendar, manually generating new weather, turning effects on/off).

## Support

If you believe you found a bug or would like to post a feature request, head over to the module's [Github repo](https://github.com/dovrosenberg/foundry-simple-weather) and [open a new issue](https://github.com/dovrosenberg/foundry-simple-weather/issues/new/choose).


## Credits

Simnple Weather is the result of the effort of many people (whether they know it or not). Please refer to [CREDITS.md](https://github.com/dovrosenberg/foundry-simple-weather/blob/master/CREDITS.md) for the full list.

## Copyright and usage
THIS ENTIRE REPOSITORY IS COVERED BY THIS LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT NOTICE

Copyright 2023 Dov Rosenberg

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
